Hello, everyone.
This challenge is a bit unique.
It's not directly related to WordPress, nor is it something that you can finish within an hour or so.
This is more of a big picture next step, or I guess we could call it a career challenge.
But nevertheless, I am challenging you to learn a modern JavaScript library or framework throughout
this course.
We used the J Query Library for all of our front end JavaScript code.
Now, while it's true that J query is a library, it's no longer the cool kid on the block and most
people would not consider it an ultra modern library.
So if you want to become as valuable as possible as a developer and you want to have a skill set that's
going to attract all sorts of opportunities into your life.
I really want to point you in the direction of learning a more modern, albeit opinionated library or
framework.
Now, that word opinionated is key here because you might be scratching your head and saying, Brad,
if geo query is not super modern and super trendy, why did you bother teaching it to us in this course?
Well, the answer is simple, J.
Query is the least opinionated solution.
I'm not saying it's not opinionated at all, just that it's way less opinionated than the modern trending
libraries.
I'm about to show you in just a moment from now.
What I mean by this is, gee, query doesn't really have an all encompassing philosophy or way of looking
at the world.
J.
Query is really just an abstraction layer of regular JavaScript that makes it easier to interact with
the DOM.
And this is why I chose J.
Query in this course, because I didn't want to force an opinion on you doing things.
The J.
Query Way is very similar to writing plain regular JavaScript.
Right.
We were still doing everything manually, step by step, responding to click events, updating the H
t Amelle for an element, adding a class or removing a class.
So on and so forth.
We were making all of our own decisions and doing whatever we wanted.
J.
Query just made the code a little bit easier to write.
An analogy I like to use is that J.
Query is like a Swiss Army knife.
It can do all sorts of different things and it's very convenient.
So for example, if you were going to be stranded on an island and you could only take one tool with
you, maybe you would take a Swiss Army knife.
However, what if you were not going to be stuck on an island?
What if you were in the middle of a field and someone gave you the task of digging a hole?
In that case, it would be silly to choose the Swiss Army knife.
Right.
Forget about that.
Give me a shovel.
I want to use the right tool for the job.
So in situations where you've got really interactive user interfaces, where you are asynchronously,
receiving data from the server and then sending data back to the server and then needing to update your
interface on the fly.
If your Web site's got a lot of that going on, maybe it doesn't make sense to choose the less opinionated
Swiss army knife.
Probably makes more sense to choose an opinionated shovel.
And in this metaphore, there are really three shovels to choose from.
The first is a library named React.
The second is angular and the third is view.
There are way more than just these three, but almost everyone agrees.
These are the big popular three now while.
Query was built to be able to do anything and everything.
And its roots are from way back when the Web was in a different place.
These three libraries react angular and view.
They were built from the ground up to power single page applications, and they can really help keep
your data in sync with what the user sees visually on the screen.
So, for example, remember when we built the My Notes feature on our WordPress site, we had that one
single screen where you could view all of your notes, create a brand new note, edit and note or delete
a note.
Well, that situation is practically begging for one of these solutions.
But who am I to tell you which one to use?
I feel like choosing one of these would be like telling you to root for either the Lakers or the Celltex
or that you should be a cat person or a dog person.
Right.
I'm not going to force that opinion on you so there's no right or wrong answer.
But it's up to you to research these three solutions and see which one feels right to you.
For the record, personally, I prefer react and I actually have an entirely separate fifteen hour course
dedicated to learning react.
It really needs its own separate course, because these new frameworks like react and angular in view,
they are all fairly opinionated and have their own unique way of looking at the world.
And it takes a good amount of time just to wrap your head around how to use one of these tools.
But having said that, they would all pare very nicely with the WordPress back end anyways.
That's going to bring this video to a close.
In summary, I challenge you to learn more about one of the big three tools react angular or view.
And not only will that bring this challenge video to a close, but that will bring this entire course
to a close if you made it this far.
I want to give you a huge thank you and congratulations for working through the course.
I know that it was a long journey and a big time investment, but I think the skills and knowledge that
you have gained were definitely worth it.
I hope you feel the same.
So until the next time we meet.
And of course, I wish you the best of luck and keep on coding.